README.md, before:

# Browser Audio Transcriber

A Chrome extension that transcribes audio from browser tabs in real-time and saves the transcriptions locally as text files.

## Features

- 🎤 **Real-time Audio Transcription**: Captures and transcribes audio from any browser tab
- 🎯 **English Language Support**: Optimized for English speech recognition
- 💾 **Local Storage**: All transcriptions are saved locally on your device
- 🎨 **Beautiful UI**: Modern, intuitive interface with recording indicators
- 📁 **Easy Download**: One-click download of transcriptions as text files
- 🔒 **Privacy-First**: No data is sent to external servers

## Installation

### Method 1: Load as Unpacked Extension (Recommended for Development)

1. **Download or Clone this Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/browser-notetaker.git
   cd browser-notetaker
   ```

2. **Open Chrome Extensions Page**
   - Open Chrome and navigate to `chrome://extensions/`
   - Or go to Menu → More Tools → Extensions

3. **Enable Developer Mode**
   - Toggle the "Developer mode" switch in the top-right corner

4. **Load the Extension**
   - Click "Load unpacked"
   - Select the `browser-notetaker` folder
   - The extension should now appear in your extensions list

### Method 2: Install from Chrome Web Store (Future)

Once published, you'll be able to install directly from the Chrome Web Store.

## Usage

### Basic Usage

1. **Navigate to a webpage** with audio content (YouTube, podcasts, etc.)

2. **Click the extension icon** in your Chrome toolbar

3. **Start Recording**
   - Click the "▶ Play" button to begin transcription
   - A red recording indicator will appear on the webpage
   - The extension will start capturing and transcribing audio

4. **Stop Recording**
   - Click the "⏹ Stop" button to end transcription
   - The transcription will be processed and displayed

5. **Download Transcript**
   - Click "📥 Download Transcript" to save as a text file
   - Files are automatically named with timestamps

### Supported Audio Sources

- YouTube videos
- Podcast players
- Music streaming services
- Video conferencing apps
- Any webpage with audio content

## Technical Details

### Architecture

- **Manifest V3**: Uses the latest Chrome extension manifest format
- **Service Worker**: Background script handles audio capture and transcription
- **Content Script**: Injected into web pages for enhanced audio detection
- **Web Speech API**: Uses Chrome's built-in speech recognition
- **MediaDevices API**: Captures audio through microphone (picks up speaker audio)

### Permissions

- `activeTab`: Access to the currently active tab
- `tabs`: Tab management and information
- `storage`: Local data storage
- `scripting`: Dynamic script injection
- `downloads`: File download functionality

### File Structure

```
browser-notetaker/
├── manifest.json          # Extension configuration
├── popup.html            # Extension popup interface
├── popup.js              # Popup functionality
├── background.js         # Service worker (audio capture & transcription)
├── content.js            # Content script (page injection)
├── icons/                # Extension icons
│   ├── icon16.png
│   ├── icon48.png
│   └── icon128.png
└── README.md             # This file
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**"Speech recognition not supported"**
- Ensure you're using Chrome browser
- Check that the page has audio content
- Try refreshing the page

**"Failed to capture tab audio"**
- Make sure the tab has audio playing
- Check that the tab is not muted
- Try switching to a different tab and back

**Recording indicator not showing**
- Check that the extension is enabled
- Try refreshing the page
- Ensure the content script is loaded

### Browser Compatibility

- ✅ Chrome 88+
- ✅ Edge 88+ (Chromium-based)
- ❌ Firefox (not supported due to different APIs)
- ❌ Safari (not supported due to different APIs)

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Chrome browser
- Basic knowledge of JavaScript and Chrome Extensions

### Local Development

1. **Clone the repository**
2. **Load as unpacked extension** (see installation instructions)
3. **Make changes** to the code
4. **Reload the extension** in `chrome://extensions/`
5. **Test your changes**

### Key Files to Modify

- `background.js`: Audio capture and transcription logic
- `popup.js`: User interface interactions
- `content.js`: Page-specific functionality
- `manifest.json`: Extension configuration

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Privacy

This extension:
- ✅ Processes all audio locally on your device
- ✅ Does not send any data to external servers
- ✅ Stores transcriptions only on your local machine
- ✅ Uses Chrome's built-in speech recognition API

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions:

1. Check the troubleshooting section above
2. Search existing issues on GitHub
3. Create a new issue with detailed information

## Roadmap

- [ ] Support for multiple languages
- [ ] Real-time transcript display
- [ ] Audio file export
- [ ] Custom transcription settings
- [ ] Keyboard shortcuts
- [ ] Cloud backup option (optional)

---

**Note**: This extension requires audio to be playing in the browser tab for transcription to work. It cannot transcribe audio from other applications or system audio.

Commit message:

Improve error handling and script injection logic
Enhanced background.js to handle content script injection errors and provide clearer user feedback when recording cannot start, especially on Chrome system pages. Updated content.js to prevent multiple injections of the content script. Added troubleshooting steps to README for connection errors.

README.md, after:

# Browser Audio Transcriber

A Chrome extension that transcribes audio from browser tabs in real-time and saves the transcriptions locally as text files.

## Features

- 🎤 **Real-time Audio Transcription**: Captures and transcribes audio from any browser tab
- 🎯 **English Language Support**: Optimized for English speech recognition
- 💾 **Local Storage**: All transcriptions are saved locally on your device
- 🎨 **Beautiful UI**: Modern, intuitive interface with recording indicators
- 📁 **Easy Download**: One-click download of transcriptions as text files
- 🔒 **Privacy-First**: No data is sent to external servers

## Installation

### Method 1: Load as Unpacked Extension (Recommended for Development)

1. **Download or Clone this Repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/browser-notetaker.git
   cd browser-notetaker
   ```

2. **Open Chrome Extensions Page**
   - Open Chrome and navigate to `chrome://extensions/`
   - Or go to Menu → More Tools → Extensions

3. **Enable Developer Mode**
   - Toggle the "Developer mode" switch in the top-right corner

4. **Load the Extension**
   - Click "Load unpacked"
   - Select the `browser-notetaker` folder
   - The extension should now appear in your extensions list

### Method 2: Install from Chrome Web Store (Future)

Once published, you'll be able to install directly from the Chrome Web Store.

## Usage

### Basic Usage

1. **Navigate to a webpage** with audio content (YouTube, podcasts, etc.)

2. **Click the extension icon** in your Chrome toolbar

3. **Start Recording**
   - Click the "▶ Play" button to begin transcription
   - A red recording indicator will appear on the webpage
   - The extension will start capturing and transcribing audio

4. **Stop Recording**
   - Click the "⏹ Stop" button to end transcription
   - The transcription will be processed and displayed

5. **Download Transcript**
   - Click "📥 Download Transcript" to save as a text file
   - Files are automatically named with timestamps

### Supported Audio Sources

- YouTube videos
- Podcast players
- Music streaming services
- Video conferencing apps
- Any webpage with audio content

## Technical Details

### Architecture

- **Manifest V3**: Uses the latest Chrome extension manifest format
- **Service Worker**: Background script handles audio capture and transcription
- **Content Script**: Injected into web pages for enhanced audio detection
- **Web Speech API**: Uses Chrome's built-in speech recognition
- **MediaDevices API**: Captures audio through microphone (picks up speaker audio)

### Permissions

- `activeTab`: Access to the currently active tab
- `tabs`: Tab management and information
- `storage`: Local data storage
- `scripting`: Dynamic script injection
- `downloads`: File download functionality

### File Structure

```
browser-notetaker/
├── manifest.json          # Extension configuration
├── popup.html            # Extension popup interface
├── popup.js              # Popup functionality
├── background.js         # Service worker (audio capture & transcription)
├── content.js            # Content script (page injection)
├── icons/                # Extension icons
│   ├── icon16.png
│   ├── icon48.png
│   └── icon128.png
└── README.md             # This file
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**"Speech recognition not supported"**
- Ensure you're using Chrome browser
- Check that the page has audio content
- Try refreshing the page

**"Could not establish connection. Receiving end does not exist."**
- Refresh the webpage you're trying to record from
- Make sure you're not on a Chrome system page (chrome:// URLs)
- Try navigating to a different webpage and back

**"Failed to capture tab audio"**
- Make sure the tab has audio playing
- Check that the tab is not muted
- Try switching to a different tab and back

**Recording indicator not showing**
- Check that the extension is enabled
- Try refreshing the page
- Ensure the content script is loaded

### Browser Compatibility

- ✅ Chrome 88+
- ✅ Edge 88+ (Chromium-based)
- ❌ Firefox (not supported due to different APIs)
- ❌ Safari (not supported due to different APIs)

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Chrome browser
- Basic knowledge of JavaScript and Chrome Extensions

### Local Development

1. **Clone the repository**
2. **Load as unpacked extension** (see installation instructions)
3. **Make changes** to the code
4. **Reload the extension** in `chrome://extensions/`
5. **Test your changes**

### Key Files to Modify

- `background.js`: Audio capture and transcription logic
- `popup.js`: User interface interactions
- `content.js`: Page-specific functionality
- `manifest.json`: Extension configuration

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Test thoroughly
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Privacy

This extension:
- ✅ Processes all audio locally on your device
- ✅ Does not send any data to external servers
- ✅ Stores transcriptions only on your local machine
- ✅ Uses Chrome's built-in speech recognition API

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions:

1. Check the troubleshooting section above
2. Search existing issues on GitHub
3. Create a new issue with detailed information

## Roadmap

- [ ] Support for multiple languages
- [ ] Real-time transcript display
- [ ] Audio file export
- [ ] Custom transcription settings
- [ ] Keyboard shortcuts
- [ ] Cloud backup option (optional)

---

**Note**: This extension requires audio to be playing in the browser tab for transcription to work. It cannot transcribe audio from other applications or system audio.
